Samuel Feye
November 7th 2016
MUS 111
Dr. Hinson


















	   This past week, I went and saw Lil Uzi Vert at the Pageant in Saint Louis. It was a very interesting experience, and I was really surprised with how many people showed up. Before this concert I was actually under the impression that Lil Uzi was still growing bigger and maybe wasn't very well known yet. But I was completely wrong, he has a huge fan base and I think he is now held in the same ranks as some of the most popular rappers of today. As for the actual performance, it was sub par. I feel like the majority of the show was put on by the opening acts, and Lil Uzi was just the ender of the show, his performance only lasted around forty-five minutes. Even though I was disappointed about not getting to see Lil Uzi much, the show was still super fun! I loved the lights and smoke, and the crowd was really into it which also made it much more enjoyable for me. Also the Pageant in Saint Louis is a smaller venue, so when it sells out, everyone gets crammed in together. That does result in being covered in your own sweat and also the guy next to you’s, but dancing in that environment is ridiculously fun. That was the best part of the show. 
	   After the opening acts finished their performances Lil Uzi came out and everything changed. The rhythm was my favorite part of his music. The way the beat of both the words and sounds flow together is very intriguing to me. It results in music that is super catchy and easy to dance to. Also prior to this show I had been listening to his music a lot, so being able to sing along with it made it ten times better. The opening acts were nice to listen to, but I had never heard of either prior to the show. I really should have looked them up and listened to them at least a little bit, because I think that would have made the show a little more enjoyable. The first opener was Chris Grinds, and he was followed by A-Game. Grinds kind of reminded me of Eminem and he is from Saint Louis so that was a pretty cool aspect of his show. As for A-Game I never really was that into it. Maybe because I was tired of hearing so much brand new music, or maybe it was because of the sound of his voice, either way I actually zoned out for out of his show. I don't know how else to put it other than to say that the openers were way too long, the show should have focused much more on Lil Uzi, I mean that is who we paid to come see. But to be fair the friend group I was with actually split in our opinions over whether or not they enjoyed the openers. I fell on the disappointed side, but plenty of my friends enjoyed their music. 
	   Somehow it is really easy to distinguish between who is a good rapper and who is just average, and this was evident the second that Uzi stepped on the stage. What I think distinguishes Lil Uzi from other rappers is the speed at which he raps, he switches very smoothly between a very fast rhythm to a slower one. I don’t know how but something about him speeding up really got the crowd excited and more involved. On top of his rhythm, I think that Lil Uzi has very catchy melodies. Everyone seemed to know his lyrics which I think is a sign for how catchy his lyrics really are. In the Pageant, the music is also insanely loud. Even though this is standard for concerts, I couldn’t stand to be in the front row for more than ten minutes at a time, just because it was too overwhelming. My ears were definitely were still ringing for the next couple of days. 
	   I think in the future, to make the concert better, they should focus more on the headliner. Having two opening acts is tiring and confusing. I guess it was much more anticipated when Lil Uzi did come out, but I still felt like I was unable to see him as much as I wanted to! Picking different openers would also be a good idea, or even just limiting to one would help. I really did hate how little of Lil Uzi’s music we got to hear. I will say that the crowd at this concert was by far the best aspect, but overall, I would say the experience as a whole was merely average.